<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="sap_s4hana_purchase_order" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Creating a Purchase Order in SAP ECC 6.0</title>
  <shortdesc>
    This topic describes how to create a standard purchase order using transaction ME21N
    in SAP ECC 6.0 Materials Management.
  </shortdesc>

  <conbody>
    <section id="overview">
      <title>Overview</title>
      <p>
        Purchase orders in SAP ECC are created using the classic SAP GUI transaction ME21N.
        The system automatically calculates taxes based on the tax code maintained in the
        vendor master. This functionality has been available since SAP R/3 4.6C.
      </p>
      <p>
        Note: SAP Business Suite users should ensure they are running ECC 6.0 Enhancement
        Package 3 or higher for the features described in this topic.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section id="prerequisites">
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Access to SAP GUI 7.10 or later</li>
        <li>Authorization for transaction ME21N (object M_BEST_BSA)</li>
        <li>Vendor master data maintained in transaction XK01</li>
        <li>Material master data with purchasing view activated</li>
        <li>Purchasing organization and purchasing group configured</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section id="procedure">
      <title>Procedure</title>
      <steps>
        <step>
          <cmd>Log on to SAP GUI and enter transaction code <userinput>ME21N</userinput> in the command field.</cmd>
          <info>The Create Purchase Order screen opens.</info>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Vendor</uicontrol> field, enter the vendor number or use F4 to search.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Purchasing Org.</uicontrol> from the dropdown and enter the <uicontrol>Purch. Group</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>In the item overview area, enter the <uicontrol>Material</uicontrol> number, <uicontrol>Quantity</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>Plant</uicontrol>.</cmd>
          <info>
            The system will propose the price from the last purchase order or info record.
            Price conditions are determined using the pricing procedure XXXXXX.
          </info>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> button or press <uicontrol>Ctrl+S</uicontrol>.</cmd>
          <result>A purchase order number is generated. Note this number for follow-up activities.</result>
        </step>
      </steps>
    </section>

    <section id="account_assignment">
      <title>Account Assignment</title>
      <p>
        For cost center purchasing, select account assignment category <uicontrol>K</uicontrol>
        and enter the cost center in the <uicontrol>Account Assignment</uicontrol> tab.
        The G/L account is determined automatically from the valuation class in the material master.
      </p>
      <p>
        Project-related purchasing uses account assignment category <uicontrol>P</uicontrol>
        with a WBS element from PS (Project System).
      </p>
    </section>

    <section id="follow_up">
      <title>Follow-Up Activities</title>
      <p>After saving the purchase order, you can:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Print the purchase order using transaction <userinput>ME9F</userinput></li>
        <li>Send by fax using the output condition type NEU</li>
        <li>Create a goods receipt using transaction <userinput>MIGO</userinput></li>
        <li>Monitor the purchase order in transaction <userinput>ME2M</userinput></li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section id="troubleshooting">
      <title>Troubleshooting</title>
      <p>
        If you receive the error message "No purchasing info record exists", you must first
        create an info record using transaction ME11 before creating the purchase order.
      </p>
      <p>
        Authorization errors typically indicate missing authorization object M_BEST_BSA.
        Contact your Basis administrator to resolve authorization issues.
      </p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
